---
layout: post
title:  "The Cabin"
date:   2023-09-10
categories: personal
image: /assets/img/saddleback.png
hidden: true
---

**Using the Cabin:**

A stay at the cabin is about as simple and straightforward as a single room cabin can get. There are six beds (4 singles, and 2 that could be used as double), and all are covered with a durable and sanitary waterproof material.

There are also 8 durable pillows to go with the beds, so all that needs to be brought is bedding or a sleeping bag.

The kitchen has simple camp cookware and dishes, and a large cooler that does very well for five days on a block of ice. There are no food items or water at the cabin, so bring what you need. Below is some additional information.

**Doors:** The key for the cabin is tied to the top of the left propane tank at the rear of the cabin. The locks on both doors will relock unless you hold the lock open and push up the small slider on the inside of the lock.
Stove: The cooking stove is a simple four burner unit. The gas should be on, and you just need to use a match or one of the butane lighters to light a burner. The propane system uses two tanks, that will automatically switch when one tank runs out. It is unlikely that both cylinders will empty out, but there will be a spare tank next to the main valve system. These tanks are standard propane tanks often used for a gas grill. Go to the tanks at the rear of the cabin, lift the hood, and look for the attachment valve to one of the tanks, turn off the tank, unscrew the valve and replace the tank with the full one nearby. Make sure to open the new tank.

**Lamps:** There are four kerosene/oil lamps in the cabin. If needed there is a package of new wicks on a shelf along the back wall, and either lamp oil or kerosene may be found in the small shed behind the cabin. Please fill outside! Keeping the wicks turned down to a reasonable level will help keep the globes from turning black. Extinguish by blowing them out rather than turning down the wicks.

**Fireplace:** The fireplace is beautiful, but the chimney is dated and suffering from the design which included a heatilator type setup. It burns well as long as a window or door is left cracked to allow a draft, and it is important that fires are kept small. There is a metal bucket and shovel for ashes, which may be disposed of at the shoreline. There is only a limited supply of firewood for the summer, so please be courteous with your consumption. A splitting maul may be found behind the front door.
Outhouse: The outhouse is located on a rise just south of the cabin. A short trail parallel to the shore should be obvious once you step off the deck on the south side. There is a small bucket of lime in the outhouse; a cup of which should be added if depositing solid waste. More lime may be found in the shed behind the cabin. Please refill the outhouse bucket when empty. Please deposit toilet paper in the small trash basket in the outhouse (and not down the hole). Please carry that trash and other garbage/waste off island when you leave.
Rain Barrel: The 50-gallon rain barrel should not be used for drinking. If heated, it should be fine for cooking and cleaning.

**Dish Cleaning and Grey Water:** The sink by the stove may be used for cleaning dishes. The water empties into a 5-gallon bucket which needs to be poured into the grey water field behind the cabin. The spout for the grey water is to the left of the shed behind the cabin, and there is a large funnel hanging on the shed to help with the pour. Please make sure the cap goes back on the spout. For cleaning water, you are welcome to use the water from the rain barrel. If that is low, salt water works well, and people often pre-clean really messy dishes down at the shore.

**Leaving the Cabin:** Please leave the cabin the way you would like to find it. Please clean all dishes, sweep the cabin floors, quickly sweep out the outhouse floor, and bring all trash and recycling with you when you leave.
Other visitors to the island: Saddleback Island is open to the public, so you may encounter other people walking around, or camping on the other side. They are allowed to be there.

**Emergencies:** It should be obvious that there is not easy access to emergency help while on Saddleback Island. Cell service is spotty while in the cabin, but good reception can usually be found along the shoreline just south of the cabin (look for a number of large boulders above the high tide line). Dial 911 for emergencies.

For general issues with the cabin or for comments after your stay, please contact MCHT Regional Steward Manager, Tatia Bauer at 207-801-4054 or tbauer@mcht.org.
